welcome everyone to this week's IPL
desync meeting it's May 25th 2020 and as
every week we go over the stuff that
we've done last week and the stuff we
might work on next week and then discuss
any open items we might have and today
it's probably not such a packed meeting
because there's a holiday in the US but
it doesn't stop us from winning
so I started myself and I'm still
working on the blog API and combined
with this one I want to make sure that
the IP LD stuff is generic over the
coding tables
I think we've discussed this a lot in
previous meetings as well that it's very
important that we can pass on your
custom coding cable and we don't bundle
em huge tables with implementations and
I was stuck with a small point which is
getting an H like codec implementation
based on such a code so let's say you
want to have takes Ybor and you only
have the integer value getting in the
actual codec which seems pretty
straightforward and if you think about
other implementations but in rest with
the current implementation it's not
unlikely today at the end of the day I
found a solution I think which is yeah
exactly you I think what I would need
for the blog API it is not as general as
it could be but that general case really
doesn't work the way things are
implemented but the way things are
implemented I think makes sense so it's
totally fine to say yeah I use this
special case and I will probably say
more next week when I really like if I
found out that things actually work
because there's no point of talking
about things that then in the end
don't worry work sometimes there's a
point but it I don't think in this case
and
yes then just yeah I haven't done any
other I body stuff last week I think
[Music]
next on my list is Eric
shoot I did a bad I was still typing I
did a bunch of things this week most of
which I probably forgot and little think
of tonight your poem but go Cogan got
some major progress this week lists and
maps now both work fully recursively and
okay that's not news but what is is that
includes recursion and when they are in
representation book so previously this
was a kind of sizable to do if he were
traversing over a recursive structure
you could start some representation mode
but then when you traversed into his
children they would forget but they were
in representation mode so like you could
be partway through a structure and like
maybe the struct inside of this map is
supposed to be string join
representation of a struct or something
and you would Traverse into this and you
would forget that you're in our
presentation mode and so the node
interface you get back continue acting
like a map and what you actually want is
long acts like strings that structure
right so they do the wrong thing now
long story short it does the right thing
so if you can pass for some node value
and you get the representation on it
that's a good of some big tree of data
if you now pass that node to like any of
the regular traversal things or for
example regular codec marshaling it'll
just transparently do the right thing
because all of the recursion will stay
where precipitation Mogens so connects
now has parently understand code
generated type serialization cool
lots more documentation is also
appearing in the go code gen i out of
some amount of partook a look at the
sheer size is over 100 kilobytes readme
and hackney files now there's a lot of
design choices that need
recording there so that's funny thing
going on sorry
and there was an interesting discussion
in the github lately where somebody asks
do we have selectors for byte weight so
the answer was no but we say and so
there's some really nice discussion that
went on over there I'm over
just say I got a heart movie reaction
from the poster of that so I feel like I
won the Internet and I won get them and
thank you random internet stranger the
little things really do make all the
difference
made my way to the rain so I'm probably
other things but I forgotten them so
rest their things okay I have a we saw
Ben Bitcoin for me which I'm frankly
getting completely sicko but I'm mostly
an into it now I and I just want to list
through the things that a gun started so
I've now process the entire block chain
in the way that I needed to and I have
tools and code to show before it so
listing things in the notes in the back
pad the main thing is speed in the IPL d
org JSI PLD Bitcoin pool request number
63 is where the bulk of my last couple
of weeks and we're about pulling that
out into a second supposedly because
it's it's basically a complete rewrite
of the JSA PLD Bitcoin code so and it
doesn't it's not compatible with the old
one it's it's compared with the new
multi footrace multi formats work so
we're gonna probably new new repo
publisher different different name and
they make a break with the past and then
to say new stuff here all stuff there
that I'm still working on documentation
I'm chipping away at getting API Docs
right now and other than that it's it's
pretty much done in my kid how
jeaious Bitcoin block does the encoding
and decoding work for the Bitcoin format
that's had to that's had to have little
bits adjusted over the last few weeks as
I've encountered these unicorn Deluxe's
and calling them in the in the
blockchain just blocks and unexpected
features and you know I think we're
talking last week about how there's a
there's a financial incentive block
change for novelty and and that that
makes it really interesting case study
in these unicorn blocks there there's a
bunch of them they can my test fixtures
are listed with these unicorn blocks now
I can identify a bunch of them and say
what's particular about them that makes
them stand out but on the block the
whole block chain and so I found
there is another repo in my github
called J's Bitcoin extract it's just a
bunch of utilities to extract the data
from Bitcoin core to verify to IP or
deify and which also verifies that the
reverse way then in the consolidation to
one key calf files which was the aim of
this project and then I also have
another utility that verifies that those
coin gig car files can be re serialized
back into the original binary format and
I've actually been I think that's still
run anything I've got that running on my
machine
yes it's just doing a verification it's
it's seems to be fine there's no problem
there and lastly there's a pull request
one seven six in the multi Couric in the
multi-format slash modacrylic repo for
the new multi codecs table to add one
more multi codec for Bitcoin called
Bitcoin with this commitment which is
code b2 and that's for this one little
data structure that is new
to pull this all off so we've got three
codecs now for Bitcoin and I've had
enough
but I'm the plan is to move on moving on
to other block chains and I think at the
moment this is not for them but I I have
started looking at Bitcoin cash and I
might do between SB as well because
these are hard focus of the blockchain
which means that they their code is is
very close to the original Bitcoin code
and today I can start processing from
the four point onwards so I don't have
the whole doctrine I just have that up
until therefore point because I've
already got the between blockchain the
rest of the done so that that might be
in need they might be easy to do but
then alternatives are other other
Bitcoin code Forks which there are a lot
of so choosing some popular ones but
this this work is getting the T is so I
think I have to sprinkle any myths
mother some other work including getting
back to my JavaScript Siebel possum
sorry C ball encoder or decoder which
was very close to being everything the
basic functionality gun and I wouldn't
mind getting back to that but I do have
a bunch of other things on my plate
my neatest scaler in there but just to
keep myself saying I think I need to
focus on this a hundred percent because
it's yeah it's it's quite consuming I'm
finding anyway that's me
thanks Peter do you have any updates or
anything you want to share not really
one thing that's interesting and new he
is that base 36 is becoming a thing now
in ipfs land because we basically ran
out of space for
it's to beat keys in subdomains and if
we encode stock invested six and subway
steps to with it exactly right so
different you know text representations
might start flying around don't get
started
other than that not really I'm still
working on my stream processor tool it's
more or less the code so there but still
you have to document the concepts
sufficiently well because it turned out
to be more complicated than I wanted and
hopefully I'll be sharing this with you
guys next Monday with with actual
examples and stuff like that but the
bottom line is that it likely will be
very easy to retool this to do UNIX sp2
or any other kinds of Siebel based work
as tests because it does steams out to
cars and you know I basically
interoperates with everything else so
with with lossless code so yeah next
Monday
can you explain the context for base 36
bit more because I kinda simply count
very suddenly and I didn't I didn't say
the logical context for why we're doing
it
because I just mentioned it because it
can consume my entire my entire weekend
figuring out how to efficiently encode
base 36 I will link the issue in a
moment once I find it but the bottom
line is that there are use cases where
we would like to use easy to end what
was it 2295 keys yes part deck for peer
IDs as part of the subdomain and the way
we are encoding currently Lippe to be
keys with all the overhead around them
once encoded in based rt2 is 65 bytes
long which is 2 bytes longer than
a DNS sub part and well we don't care
about DNS that much everything out there
when it parses even-even slack when it
parses URLs in in text it will cut
things out at 63 bytes so whenever you
do something that's URI looking you have
to have every part of the secured
portion of the URI be at most 60 bytes
and this is why we are introducing
support for base 3 6 in ecology edges
because then everything fits within the
limits that we work with there is a
discussion whether we would want to
switch everything to base 36 or just use
base 36 in basically in the in the URL
but yeah working practice on the ok so
this and these are all the D is a
lowercase I shrimp so what's the what's
the main difference with what about
looking like with from 5:30 to 8 what
other characters are we adding in way oh
oh so we decided on K as the as the
actual as the actual prefix just like B
is for base 32 and ze is for Bitcoin
base 58 and there case-insensitive from
0 to 9 and from A to Z any case mixing
will work correctly and that's that and
I will link in a moment the actual test
cases
well done okay is there anything else
anyone wants to talk about if not then I
can knows the meeting this time was a
short one again so thanks everyone for a
time and see you all next week goodbye